# Overview

The "atom-*" series of repositories is a prototype of how to build a full stack design-system:

- [figma]() holds the design-tokens as Figma Variables and serves as our single source of truth. (WIP)
- [atom-figma]() is a Figma plugin, that exports the variables to CSS Custom Properties
- [atom-lit]() (this repo) is an implementation of the design system as HTML Custom Elements, using Lit. (WIP)
- [atom-using-vanilla]() is a consumer of the `atom-lit` components, in a framework-less typescript project
- [atom-using-react]() is a consumer of the `atom-lit` components, in a react project
- [atom-using-angular]() is a consumer of the `atom-lit` components, in a angular project

- [ ] design system documentation
- [ ] storybook

## Tokens

In Figma, the Variable Collection "theme" defines the tokens accross two modes (light and dark).
Each token can be a literal, or point to any other token (in any other (local) variable collection).
Only tokens in "theme" is exported, with their values resolved.

This approach was taken to minimize the amount of CSS Custom Properties exposed in the browser,
and could be considered a first-level tree-shake: Only applied variables are included.

The mapping of design-tokens to component-tokens happens in `atom-lit/atom.css`.

The amount of theme-able properties is fairly low at the moment, but might grow with time.

## vscode intellisense

For vscode intellisense to work with Custom HTML Elements, we need to make vscode aware of them.
```js
// .vscode/settings.json:
{
  "html.customData": ["./node_modules/atom-lit/vscode-html-custom-data.json"]
}

```
The `vscode-html-custom-data.json` file is generated by `bun run vscode` (or `bunx web-component-analyzer analyze src/atom/components --format vscode --outFile vscode-html-custom-data.json` )

More at
- https://github.com/bmewburn/vscode-intelephense/issues/2570
- https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-custom-data/blob/main/samples/webcomponents/README.md
- https://custom-elements-manifest.open-wc.org/analyzer/getting-started/

## documentation

Storybook is a monster, so lets do sth else.




## Overview

By extending from the the Atom class instead of from the LitElement class, the ui components gain:

- Optional automatic two-way binding to state
- Optional automatic emit of ready and change events

Toggle this behavior by including or excluding the `bind=` attribute in containing HTML:

```html
// example: Using automatic two-way binding to state: // in /state.js: export
const initialState = { num: 4, }; // in index.html Range slider:
<atom-range value="20" bind="num"></atom-range>

Monitor: <atom-binding bind="num"></atom-binding>
```

```html
// example: Using events to update the monitor Range slider:
<atom-range id="slider" value="20"></atom-range>

Monitor: <span id="monitor"></span>

var slider = document.querySelector("#slider) var monitor =
document.querySelector("#monitor) slider.addEventListener("ready", (e) => {
monitor.innerText = e.detail.value }) slider.addEventListener("change", (e) => {
monitor.innerText = e.detail.value })
```

The `value` prop can also be set programmatically.

```html
// example: Using events to update the monitor Range slider:
<atom-range id="slider" value="20"></atom-range>

var slider = document.querySelector("#slider) var v = 10; setInterval( () => {
slider.value = ++v }, 1000)
```

---

We should probably make a better name for the base "Atom" class ;-)

Now,

The purpose of all this, is to find a way to build ui's, that are a joy to build with.

- [ ] Setup should be extremely simple
- [ ] As few dependencies as possible
- [x] UI Components should be useful even without styling
- [ ] But have a good styling story - so these can be our "white-label" components

---

## TODO:

Consider separating Button variants,
so that we can have $constructive-$outline?

#### Tokens

Connect to design-tokens

#### Events

Respect onclick attributes from consumer

#### Atoms

- [x] Range slider
- [x] Button with optional left- and right-icons
- [x] Icon-only button
- [x] Binding monitor
- [x] Switch
- [ ] ColorPicker
- [ ] ColorSwatchPicker
- [ ] Checkbox
- [ ] Radio
- [ ] RadioGroup

- [ ] Form text-input
- [ ] Form Select/Dropdown
- [ ] ButtonGroup
- [ ] Progressbar
- [ ] Loader
- [ ] Detail fold in/out view
- [ ] DetailGroup (aka Accordion)


### Molecules

- [ ] LightDarkMode switch
- [ ] 


---

# Other

Favicon from https://favicon.io/favicon-generator/


---

## Notes on integration in a Angular project:

### in atom-lit:

```sh
bun run buildjs
bun link
```

### in angular

package.json: add `"atom-lit": "link:atom-lit"` to dependencies

`bun i`

edit angular.json: architect > build :

"styles": [
    "src/styles.css",
    "node_modules/atom-lit/atom-lib.css"
],
"scripts": [
    "node_modules/atom-lit/atom-lib.js"
]

edit/create /.vscode/settings.json and add:

`"html.customData": ["./node_modules/atom-lit/src/atom/vscode-html-custom-data.json"]`

and then, in the .component.ts angular files where you want to use atom-lit,
add 

import { Component, CUSTOM_ELEMENTS_SCHEMA } from "@angular/core";

@Component({
	...
	schemas: [CUSTOM_ELEMENTS_SCHEMA],
})


